About Silico
============

Computational chemistry, particularly for newcomers, can be an almost impenetrably complex field.
This complexity arises from a variety of sources, but perhaps chief among which is that the underlying mathematics is, in nearly all cases, itself extremely complex. In fact the underlying theory may be so entirely impenetrable to some users that even making informed decisions on how to use or apply the technique becomes impossible. Further, the computational chemistry programs themselves are behemoths of software that are generally some combination of old, complicated, unforgiving and nearly exclusively closed-source, necessitating constant trips to the manual or questions to expert users for even the most trivial of problems, not least because error reporting may be minimal, absent or, at worst, entirely baffling. In addition, it is often not enough to master a single computational chemistry program because each carries certain strengths and weaknesses, including which methods it supports. Further still, in most cases yet more software is required to assist in the processing of the raw output from these programs, particularly for the generation of plots or images. In all, this can result in an extremely convoluted 'pipeline'; the full process from which a computation is started to when results are obtained, demanding the user to become familiar with a whole suite of programs they would otherwise have nothing to do with.

All of these issues are further compounded because many (if not most) computational chemistry installations do not feature a graphical user interface (GUI), instead relying solely on command-prompt style interfaces. While this arrangement may be be perfectly reasonable to the programmers and seasoned users of computational chemistry, it is yet another hurdle to the average user. As such, achieving even the most basic of tasks, such as performing a calculation or analysing the results, can become extremely cumbersome.
This high-entry requirement can act as a significant barrier to entry for many aspiring computational chemists, particularly those who wish to harness the power of computational chemistry techniques in a 'black-box' fashion without wanting to concern themselves with the intricate details of the underlying theory or computational pipeline.

Silico is a software package that attempts to alleviate these problems by automating and/or simplifying as many aspects of computational chemistry as possible, with the ultimate goal of making computational chemistry accessible to all scientists while necessitating as little prior knowledge as possible. In the first instance, it achieves this by providing a single, unified interface to the whole of the computational chemistry pipeline, so in most cases Silico becomes the only program a user needs to be come familiar with. Further, by providing a choice of up-to-date interfaces (including a pseduo-GUI interface), Silico aims to be a significantly more user friendly experience than any of the underlying programs it supports. See the :ref:`supported features <features>` for more information.
